2
2.1
A.
Our program generates so many long sentences because of a rule that can play a role of recursive term and be repeated for countless times. That is "NP NP PP". We can see that "NP" appears in both LHS and RHS. As a result, we may have a NP with countless PPs, which makes a long sentence.

B.
Give Noun, we have 6 rules to play with. Such as "Noun	Adj Noun" and "Noun	president". "Noun Adj Noun" only account for 1/6. To have k adjs, the prob of the sentence must be less then or equal to (1/6)^k, which is really small.

C.
To fix item 1, I will decrease the weight of rule "1	NP	NP PP" (or enhance the weights of the rivals of this rule).
To fix item 2, I will enhance the weight of "1	Noun	Adj Noun" (or decrease the weights the rivals of this rule).
None

D.
I will reassign weights of rules whose lhs is "Det". In our life, "the" and "a" have a much higher frequency than "every".

E.
None


2.2

9.
To support sentence 1, I add:
1 Noun Sally

To support sentence 2, I add:
1 NP NP and NP
1 VP VP and VP

To support sentence 3, we must firstly emphasize the following facts:
"VP" in grammar.txt refers to a transitive verb phrase
"Verb" in grammar.txt refers to a transitive verb
As a result, we need to add the following symbols to our symbol set:
"VP_both" refers to either transitive verb phrase or intransitive verb phrase
"VP_intran" refers to an intransitive verb phrase
"Verb_intran" refers to an intransitive verb.
Here are the revisions.
Firstly I replace the following first sentence with the following second sentence:
1	S	NP VP
1	S	NP VP_both
Secondly, I add:
1 VP_both VP
1 VP_both VP_intran
1 VP_intran Verb_intran
1 Verb_intran sighed

To support sentence 4, I add:
1 VP thought that S

To support sentence 5, I add:
1 S it perplexed NP that S

To support sentence 6, I add:
1 S that S perplexed NP 

To support sentence 7, we need to add the following symbol to our symbol set:
"VERY" means a series of "very", such as "very very".
Here I add:
1 VERY very VERY
1 VERY very

To support sentence 8, we need to add:
1 Verb_intran worked
1 Noun proposal
1 VP_intran Verb_intran PP




10.
None